#Metrics
##Goal
Play is a framework that aims to be chosen by its clients in cases where large web applications have to be developed. Therefor, oen of the major goal of the developers of Play can be defined as _"Developing an attractive web application framework that want to build web applications of scale."_

Attractive is objective and may be interpreted by a broad set of characteristics such as; reliable, robust, flexible, maintainable, etc. The following sections will go in depth on some of these characteristics.

##Questions
In this section, 3 question will be formulated that focus on characterising the assessment or achievement of the goal that has been defined in the section above.

###Maintainability

###Scalability
The second question that can be formulated is _"How scalable is the Play framework?"_. Scalability is an important aspect for a web development framework that aim to support large web applications. It ensures that a web application continues to operate according to standards, while the demand increases.

##Metrics

###Scalability
The metrics that can be defined for measuring scalability of a web application are:
* Amount of resources per request
* Throughput

#####Resources per request
The resources per request is a relevant metric, because it tells a lot about the efficiency of handling the requests. The more efficient a request is handled, the less resources are needed in large demands and thus the more scalable the application is.

The metric (applied to Play) we define for this is: _resources/HTTP request_.



#####Throughput
The throughput of a system is a key aspect that tells a lot about the efficiently of the application. The higher the throughput, the more requests is may be able to handle per unit of time. This increases the amount of requests that can handled in large amounts of requests and thus increases the scalability of the framework.

The metric we define for throughput is: _requests/second (RPS)_.

The HTTP request in Play! 2.3 and earlier are by default [handled by Netty](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/1.1/api/play/mvc/class-use/Http.Request.html). A lot of tests have been performed between the most commonly used web development frameworks. A few of the results are listed below.

* 9.000 requests/sec in a test performed by [TechEmpower](http://www.techempower.com/blog/2013/04/05/frameworks-round-2/). The test consisted of JSON-request using an Amazon EC2 Large instance. Netty itself takes the lead with a whopping 37.9k request/sec.
* 2.400 requests/second in a test performed by [Christian Papauschek](http://blog.papauschek.com/2013/04/real-world-performance-of-the-play-framework-on-ec2/) in 2013. In this test, a Play 2.1.1-scala production instance running on EC2 large was used to service complete webpages. 


